- [Instructor] Batch jobs commonly process,
or produce flat files, as part of their logic,
so it's no surprise we find support for them
out of the box in Spring Batch.
In this lesson we'll read a flat file
delimited in CSV format
using Spring Batch's flat file item reader.
We'll build a job that processes orders
for a fictional company, H Plus Sport.
You'll find the shipped_orders.csv file
within a data directory included within the working files
for the course.
If we take a look at this CSV file
we'll see that it contains orders
for the H Plus Sport company.
H Plus Sport sells different items
related to sports and nutrition
that customers are able to purchase on their online store.
In our CSV file we've depicted these different orders.
A couple things to note.
First, you'll notice this CSV file has headers
that correspond with the data found in each column.
And then within the rows of the file
we find the different orders with the associated data
for the column.
This is what we're going to be reading in
using our flat file item reader.
The job we're going to build
will support their order processing
and shipping operations
and we'll be working to build out those batch jobs
throughout the course from this point forward
as part of a small project.
Now if we navigate over to Eclipse,
one thing you'll notice is we've added a pojo
that corresponds with the data we just looked at.
So we just have all the fields on this order class
and then we have getters and setters
that correspond with those fields as well.
Now let's shift over and start building out our job.
So within our job we're currently set up
to process strings.
For the order processing
we're going to be performing for H Plus Sport
we want to be working with orders.
So let's go ahead
and we're going to change our chunk to work with an order
and we'll change both the input and the output
to be of type order
and that's going to cause a few issues.
First our ItemWriter is not setup to write orders.
So let's change its generic type over to order
so that we can handle the order itself.
Okay.
Now that we've setup the item writer to handle orders
we need to start work on our item reader.
So the item reader currently is working with a string
so we're going to modify that
in order to read orders.
We'll no longer be using our simple item reader
and we're going to work to build out
a flat file item reader.
So we're going to create a new flat file item reader
that has a generic type of order.
We'll go ahead and name this variable itemReader
and then we'll use the new operator
and the FlatFileItemReader constructor
in order to create an instance of it.
Now we can start with the configuration
of our flat file item reader.
So the first thing we're going to do
is on the item reader we're going to tell it to skip
the first line
because it contains the headers
as opposed to the actual data that we'd like to process,
so we can use the setLinesToSkip method
in order to skip those headers.
The next thing we need to do is tell our itemReader
where to find its data.
And we can do that by using the setResource method.
And we're going to point to that csv file on our filesystem.
Now I have placed my file within the root of the filesystem
in a directory called data.
So you'll need to use the corresponding path
for this next command for where you place the file.
In order to reference the file
we'll create a FileSystemresource
and then we just need to provide the path to the file.
So I mentioned I was within the root in a data directory.
And then the name of the file is shipped_orders.csv.
Okay, so it knows how to find the data.
Now we need to instruct the flat file item reader
on how to process that data as it reads it.
To help us with that
we use a DefaultLineMapper object.
So we're going to declare a new object
of type DefaultLineMapper
and I'm just going to name it lineMapper.
And then we use the new operator
and the constructor to create it.
Using the line mapper
we can instruct the flat file item reader
on how to parse out the different lines of data
within the CSV
and then how to take those parsed tokens
and map them to our order pojo.
So we're going to work on that first part
of how to parse them out.
And to do that we're going to use another object
and it's a DelimitedLineTokenizer.
So by default the DelimitedLineTokenizer
will break the line based upon a comma as a delimiter.
Since we're using a CSV,
we don't need to provide any additional configuration
and we can just create the object
using the new operator and the constructor.
The next thing that we'll need to do
is tell the tokenizer the name of the columns
found within our csv file.
And we can do that using the setNames method.
Now this accepts an array of strings
that correspond with the header columns
to make life easier on us
I've created that string array already.
So if we take a look
you'll notice there is a tokens string array
at the top of the class
that contains the name of each of the column headers
found within our CSV file.
So we'll simply pass that string array into the tokenizer
and it will know how to split the different lines
within our csv
and it will know which position within the csv file
corresponds with the different headers.
Okay, the next thing we need to do
is set the line tokenizer on our line mapper.
So we simply pass in our newly constructed
delimited line tokenizer
to the line mapper.
The next thing we need to do is instruct our line mapper
on how to create an order object
using the tokens parsed by the DelimitedLineTokenizer.
So we're going to set another field on the lineMapper
and this is going to be the FieldSetMapper.
And from here I'm just going to stub in a constructor
for a new object we're going to create
which will be of type FieldSetMapper.
So we'll just leave that in place for now
and then we're going to set the line mapper
on our itemReader.
And we can do that by using the setLineMapper method
and passing in our lineMapper.
And then we need to return our itemReader from this method.
Okay, so everything's almost in place.
We just need to create our fieldSetMapper.
So I'm just going to hover over the stub constructor,
hit control + one,
and then I'm going to create a new class.
And then we can just go ahead and hit finish
and this will generate a class
that implements the FieldSetMapper interface.
The FieldSetMapper is going to have one method,
mapFieldSet,
and it's going to receive the field sets that were parsed
from our csv file.
And then all we need to do is use that field set
to create a new order object.
So once we've instantiated an order
we'll just go down through all the set methods
and retrieve the corresponding field from the field set
using one of the read methods.
So you'll notice we have the readLong method
that we can use to read our order_id.
And then we're going to just proceed to the next field
on our order to set.
In this case we're going to set the cost.
And the fieldSet also has a readBigDecimal method
so we can go ahead and read the cost from the fieldSet.
And the next field we'll set is the email.
And using the readString method
we can go ahead and read the email from our fieldSet.
And then we just have a few more fields
that we need to set.
So we get the first name of the customer
which is going to be a string.
We'll also get the last name of the customer
which is also going to be a string.
Then we'll set the item ID
which will read as a string from the fieldSet.
We'll also get the item name
and set that on our order object.
We can read that as a string as well.
And then finally we're going to set the ship date
on our order that's also found within our fieldSet
using the readDate method.
And we just need to specify the name of that column
as ship_date.
And then from there we just return the order.
Okay, so you can see the basics of the fieldSet mapper.
We're going to get all the fields from the csv
that were parsed out as part of this field set
and then we just grab the corresponding field
from the field set and set it on our order pojo.
Ultimately we end up constructing an order instance
that will be mapped to the row in the csv file.
At this point we're just going to head over to the terminal
and you'll remember that I've placed a script
to run the job within the directory for the project
and we'll just go ahead and execute that.
Okay, there you can see we're processing a lot of data
and our job completed successfully.
So in this lesson we were able to read data from a csv file
using a flat file item reader.
And this is one of the out of the box item readers
provided by the framework.
It's very important because csv files
are typically used within batch processing.
While there's a little bit of configuration
within our flat file item reader
that might be kind of intimidating
it's a lot easier than writing out all the code
to parse the csv file on your own for a batch process.